and I probably made a mistake and recorded on top of
the A side of tape number one, part of what Fred has
been sharing. We're now, and he is sharing with us
his experiences with the Student Judicial Board.
FRED PODESTA. Or the Judicial Board, the J Board,
as it was called. DAVID BURRAGE. The J Board. that
they charged him with failure to- No, I was taken
before the J Board, which by the way was all
appointed by me. I was taken before the J Board for
failure to implement legislation which had been
enacted by the previous student senate. And that
was a requirement that the students be given an
opportunity to vote confidence or no confidence
in all the professors. And that this information
be made available. to students such that when they
registered for the spring semester that they
would have this knowledge at hand. A piece of
legislation, by the way, which I opposed as a
student senator, but didn't have to vote because I
was speaker. In any event,
the guy who was responsible for putting this
legislation together, who'd been the vice
president for academic affairs, got angry with me
because I didn't do it. And so he filed charges
against me before the Judicial Board, which, as I
said, I appointed all the members. And
ironically, I got off on a technicality. And the
technicality was that ultimately the charges
were moved because since it had to be done in
December and he didn't take me to the J Board until
February, It was too late, so it couldn't be
enforced anyway. But it was kind of fun there for
two or three weeks, being the center of attention
in terms of legislation that I refused to
implement as student body president. Some of the
other things that we were engaged in during that
time frame, I had a couple of unpopular things that
I was involved in. We had a fairly unsuccessful
program where student government had been trying
to help decrease the cost of textbooks for
students. And we ran a thing called, it was
actually a co-op kind of a deal, but we ran a thing
called Bookmark. And we ran into one of the
traditional problems associated with
student-run volunteer organizations. couldn't
pay anything to anybody, and so it was kind of hard
to run the thing. And so we finally reached the
conclusion that it was something that needed to be
shut down. So I got the chance to shut down
Bookmark. We also rented refrigerators, which is
an interesting concept because the
refrigerators, and again, another thing that
required manpower, refrigerators were rented by
kids who lived in the dorm, which got to the whole
question of whether or not kids could have alcohol
in dorms and what rules we were able to deal with in
terms of what the use of alcohol on university
property. And fortunately, we worked very well
with the folks over at the university officials on
the rules and regulations committee to come up
with a program of work in that regard. We also, back
early during that time frame, and this is really
neat since we're about to have a dedication of this
soon on campus, and I had the opportunity 20 years
later to both piece of legislation to create a
daycare center. The nature of the student
population was changing. And back during the time
that I was student body president, we pursued
rather strongly the idea of trying to create a
daycare facility on campus for married kids who
both parents were going to school, but they didn't
have any daycare facilities. And I'm quite proud
that we're at that point now, 20 years later, at the
university. We toured around with creating a food
co-op, another opportunity to try to
save kids money. But we kept running into this, how
do you fund it kind of a scenario. But I think they
were great ideas. During that time frame, too, we
got very involved in external affairs in terms of
involvement in the governance of the city of
College Station. which we thought was important.
Because since we had such a large number of
students living there, and many of them were
living off campus, that their lives were affected
by decisions that were made by the city council. So
we had regular representation there in terms of
their meetings. And we very often got in the mix to
some of the stuff that they were discussing. Two,
we had a lot of involvement in Austin. in terms of
what the Texas legislature was doing during that
period of time. One of the big fights that we always
had, which is of course one that continues
probably even to this day, is how we divided up
student service fees. It was the annual ritual
that we went through, not unlike the federal
budget process. And going through the process of
how much money the athletic department got and how
much went to the various other activities
associated with running student-related
activities on campus. And it's now about 10 or 11
till. I don't know whether they're here yet, so we
can't be. Let's see. Do you remember any, let's
talk about people that you wish you could thank.
Faculty members that really you remember with
pride, joy, gratitude? The one with anger, I can't
remember his name. Actually, you know, I, I
really, really had...
I mean, I could probably go down the list of... Who
would you want to thank most? Who were at the top of
the list? Your gratitude. I guess probably
thanking most would be... This is dangerous
because a lot of these people are still alive.
But I guess probably...
I cannot not It is very difficult for me to pick out
one, and the reason to pick that is difficult is
because various ones among them, we had an
interface that was different. For example, if you
take out the student services piece, the student
activities leadership piece, you know, John
Colas, Stan's head and shoulders because he was
the one that I spent most of my time with because of
his capacity. But then within that mix, you got
Carol Nadair, who really was the one who sort of
held with student government in particular. And
frankly, I served as student body president
during that period of time when Dr. Williams was
ill. And Clyde Freeman was acting president of
Texas A&M University during the time that I was
student vice president. And I used to kid him and
say that we got away with murder because all he was
concerned about was finance anyway. So
therefore, we could get away with whatever we
wanted, even though I had great times with Jack
Williams prior to that. But I guess on the student
services side, it's probably him. And you put into
that mix, too, Bob Boone, That gave me not only a
cultural experience, but a fun experience to do
something I liked a whole lot. I would have great
guy who I think took and did just virtually the
impossible task in terms of making that work for
the city cadets and thus for the university. What
about over the people that- On the academic side-
That taught you and- Yeah, on the academic side, I
probably would have to stick most with those folks
in my college. and more specifically within my
department, you know, I can't take Dr. I can't take
R.C. Potts out of the equation because of what he
did. And then I've mentioned both of these other
three or four guys earlier, Don Levi and J.C. Gray
and Herman Brown because of how they molded and
directed me during on the academic side of the
equation. But you know, those guys, too, were the
same kinds of guys that if I had some sort of,
whether it was a personal problem or whether it was
a personal challenge or whether it was
something I wanted to do student
government-wise, I wanted to bounce it off of
somebody, or whether it was some other sort of
challenge, I could see any of those guys any time.
And it was something that I'm most grateful for to
this day, the guidance that they provided me. One
of the great things about all of those people I
mentioned, and many others too, the thing that I
think makes Texas A&M unique in terms of its
student leadership opportunities is that
The folks who, the adults, if you will, who are
responsible for providing direction were always
open to
allowing students to make their own choices,
allowing students to fail, even if they fail, and
allow them to try something new. In other words,
they allowed kids to lead.
Yeah, there were some opportunities. There were
some instances when we wanted to do something that
perhaps the administration did not want us to do.
But those were not that many. I remember one in
particular, which is kind of a fun story. The
university had made a decision that it wanted to
shut down, I want to say it was Milner Hall, but it
was one of the dorms over by the By Sabisa, there was
one of these on air condition, had hanging pipes,
showers in the middle of each floor, and restrooms
and showers in the middle of each floor. And it
wanted to turn it into, I believe, a math, I think it
was a math office building. It might have been
Miller. It was one of those two over at that
Hotard-Miller area. And we caught wind of it. And,
you know, we thought we came up with these really
ingenious arguments that, in fact, one of our
guys, one of the guys who was vice president on our
team, either had some buddies in there or had lived
in there at some point in time. And we didn't like
the thought of taking the dormitory, you know,
just shortage of housing. We could always make
that argument. You want to keep kids on campus and
all these kinds of things. Plus, the kids want to
live there. And these old man professors didn't
need any more space. They had space anyway. So why
are we going to do this? And we individually
lobbied the members of the Board of Regents. And we
rolled the administration. And the board voted in
our favor. We held it off for a year. We finally
lost, but it was one of those where, and I'll never
forget the anger which was expressed to us by the
administration for our having the gall to go
around their back and go lobby members of the Board
of Regents. Was Freeman or Williams president?
Uh, it was an honor to be president, so, uh, Clyde
Wilson. Clyde, okay. Clyde Wilson. Uh, and, uh,
because this is something I think had come up
through academic affairs, through, I guess, John
Calhoun was an academic affairs guy, but the guy
who led that was Scott Gregson of Garrison, Texas,
who was vice president of finance. And old Scott
said, we've got to lobby the members of the board,
and we lobbied everybody. We've got enough votes
on the board of regents to turn, to get them to turn
down the request of administration. It was kind of
cool. Well, let's see, we're... I don't encourage
that now, by the way. Okay.